# GNSS Station Ranking

This repo provides a pipeline for ranking a set of GNSS stations based on metrics derived from Ginan PPP processing.

All plots and results used in the SBE4402 journal paper are available in `paper_figures.ipynb`.

## Getting Started

1.  Install Python 3, create a virtualenv and install requirements.txt

```         
python3 -m venv env
source env/bin/activate
python -m pip install -r requirements.txt
```

2.  Run scoring and plotting for the ppp config

```         
python -m score --config scenarios/ppp.yaml && python -m plot --config scenarios/ppp.yaml
```

3.  View results in results/ppp.

## Workflow

```
query -> score -> plot
```

1. The `query` module is run against raw metric parquet files that generated by parsing TRACE files (this lives in in the `gnssanalysis` package). The query module runs SQL queries against the parquet files to determine the mean or median for each metric for each station for each day. These are stored in the `cache` directory. Stored in monthly files to allow parallelisation of queries on HPC.

2. The `score` module aggregates the daily metrics to produce a single quality score for each station, then orders those scores to produce ranks. All configuration happens with yaml files in `scenarios` folder. Scores can be produced globally over an entire timeseries, or over a configurable window to see how the score changes over time.

3. The `plot` module reads the results that were output from the previous step and generates a series of plots to show scores and ranks geographically and how they change over time.


## Project structure

```
scenarios - YAML config files for scoring (inputs, outputs, metrics, weights, aggregation methods)
query - SQL queries to create daily values for each metric for each station. Runs on the HPC against raw metric parquet files.
cache - Daily aggregated metrics from raw metric parquet files created using the query/ module.
score - Scoring and ranking using data from the cache. Configured in scenarios.
plot - Plots to assess scores and ranks over time and geography.
```

## Generating query cache

This command generates a query cache all metrics over the full timeseries. Each metric is generated individually. These commands were run on the HPC to generate the cache from raw parquet files.

```
python -m query postfit_residuals 2019-01-01 2025-12-31
python -m query amb_resets 2019-01-01 2025-12-31
python -m query amb_resets_no_kf 2019-01-01 2025-12-31
python -m query linear_combinations 2019-01-01 2025-12-31
python -m query position 2019-01-01 2025-12-31
python -m query satellite_gaps 2019-01-01 2025-12-31
python -m query observations 2019-01-01 2025-12-31
```